Add saved object docs (#90860)
elastic/kibana: dev_docs/tutorials/saved_objects.mdx

---
id: kibDevTutorialSavedObject
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/tutorial/saved-objects
title: Register a new saved object type
summary: Learn how to register a new saved object type.
date: 2021-02-05
tags: ['kibana','onboarding', 'dev', 'architecture', 'tutorials']
---

> Saved object type definitions should be defined in their own `my_plugin/server/saved_objects` directory.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Saved Object type definitions should be defined in their own `my_plugin/server/saved_objects` directory.
```

```ts
import { SavedObjectsType } from 'src/core/server';

export const dashboardVisualization: SavedObjectsType = {
  name: 'dashboard_visualization', [1]
  hidden: false,
  namespaceType: 'single',
  mappings: {
    dynamic: false,
    properties: {
      description: {
        type: 'text',
      },
      hits: {
        type: 'integer',
      },
    },
  },
  migrations: {
    '1.0.0': migratedashboardVisualizationToV1,
    '2.0.0': migratedashboardVisualizationToV2,
  },
};
```

[1] Since the name of a Saved Object type forms part of the url path for the public Saved Objects HTTP API, 
these should follow our API URL path convention and always be written as snake case.

**src/plugins/my_plugin/server/saved_objects/index.ts**

```ts
export { dashboardVisualization } from './dashboard_visualization';
export { dashboard } from './dashboard';
```

**src/plugins/my_plugin/server/plugin.ts**

```ts
import { dashboard, dashboardVisualization } from './saved_objects';

export class MyPlugin implements Plugin {
  setup({ savedObjects }) {
    savedObjects.registerType(dashboard);
    savedObjects.registerType(dashboardVisualization);
  }
}
```

## Mappings

> Each Saved Object type can define it’s own Elasticsearch field mappings. Because multiple Saved Object

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
Each Saved Object type can define its own Elasticsearch field mappings. Because multiple Saved Object
```

types can share the same index, mappings defined by a type will be nested under a top-level field that matches the type name.

For example, the mappings defined by the dashboard_visualization Saved Object type:

**src/plugins/my_plugin/server/saved_objects/dashboard_visualization.ts**

```ts
import { SavedObjectsType } from 'src/core/server';

export const dashboardVisualization: SavedObjectsType = {
  name: 'dashboard_visualization',
  ...
  mappings: {
    properties: {
      dynamic: false,
      description: {
        type: 'text',
      },
      hits: {
        type: 'integer',
      },
    },
  },
  migrations: { ... },
};
```

Will result in the following mappings being applied to the .kibana index:

```ts
{
  "mappings": {
    "dynamic": "strict",
    "properties": {
      ...
      "dashboard_vizualization": {
        "dynamic": false,
        "properties": {
          "description": {
            "type": "text",
          },
          "hits": {
            "type": "integer",
          },
        },
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Do not use field mappings like you would use data types for the columns of a SQL database. Instead, field mappings are analogous to a 

> SQL index. Only specify field mappings for the fields you wish to search on or query. By specifying dynamic: false

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
SQL index. Only specify field mappings for the fields you wish to search on or query. By specifying `dynamic: false`
```

 in any level of your mappings, Elasticsearch will accept and store any other fields even if they are not specified in your mappings.

Since Elasticsearch has a default limit of 1000 fields per index, plugins should carefully consider the 

> fields they add to the mappings. Similarly, Saved Object types should never use dynamic: true as this can cause an arbitrary

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
fields they add to the mappings. Similarly, Saved Object types should never use `dynamic: true` as this can cause an arbitrary
```

 amount of fields to be added to the .kibana index.

>  ## References

Reviewer: References will also affect multi-space saved-objects as well, as previously mentioned.

Author: I think I'll link to the Key Concept section to avoid duplicating this information.

>  When a Saved Object declares references to other Saved Objects, the Saved Objects Export API will automatically export the target object with all of it’s references. 

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
 When a Saved Object declares references to other Saved Objects, the Saved Objects Export API will automatically export the target object with all of its references. 
```

>  This makes it easy for users to export the entire reference graph of an object.

Reviewer: Should we add a section that the saved-object that has the references is the "parent" while all of the referenced saved-objects are "children". As such, when a "parent" is exported, all the "children" will be automatically included. However, when a "child" is exported, it will not include all "parents"?

Author: Yes, great idea!

> If a Saved Object can’t be used on it’s own, that is, it needs other objects to exist for a feature to function correctly, that

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
If a Saved Object can’t be used on its own, that is, it needs other objects to exist for a feature to function correctly, that
```
